what is devops?
  it is all about automation. It is continuous transformation, improvement in company operations
  In Landmark automation is the key for our Project.

  
    it is the future of software development.
    it bring automation, speed and high ROI(return of investment)
    - continuous intergration
    - continuous development
    - continuous testing
    - continuous delivery
    - continuous deployment
    - continuous monitoring
    - continuous security

what is DevSecOps?
  It is the intergration of continuous development + security + operations


What is a CI/CD pipeline?
  CI/CD Pipeline or Continuous Integration/ Continuous Delivery is considered the DevOps approach's backbone. The pipeline is 
responsible for building codes, running tests, and deploying new software versions.


What is Jenkinsfile? 
  Jenkins file is a text file that has a definition of a Jenkins pipeline and is checked into 
the source control repository. It enables code review and iteration on the pipeline. It also permits 
an audit trail for the pipeline.


Assume that you have a pipeline. The first job that you performed was successful, but the second one 
failed.  What would you do now?

  You don't have to worry, and you just have to restart the pipeline from the point where it 
failed by doing 'restart from stage.'


What is Groovy in Jenkins?
  Apache Groovy is a dynamic object-oriented programming language used as a scripting language for Java platforms. 
  Groovy is used to orchestrate the Jenkins pipeline and enables different teams to contribute to the work in different languages. 
  Groovy's syntax is very similar to that of Java, making it more seamless with the Java interface. 
  The language has several features like Java compatibility and Development support.



How do you store credentials in Jenkins securely?

  Credentials can be stored securely in Jenkins using the Credentials plugin, which stores 
different types of credentials like - Username with a password, SSH username with the private key, 
AWS Credentials, Jenkins Build Token, Secret File/Text, X509 & other certificates, Vault related 
credentials securely with proper encryption & decryption as and when required.


What are the types of Jenkins pipelines?

  Jenkins Pipelines can be either - a Declarative pipeline or a Scripted Pipeline. 
Declarative pipeline makes use of numerous, generic, predefined build steps/stages (i.e. code snippets) 
to build our job according to our build/automation needs whereas, with Scripted pipelines, 
the steps/stages can be custom-defined & used using a groovy syntax which provides better 
control & fine-tuned execution levels